## Planning your cluster
### General information
This setup allows for quite a bit of flexibility: you can have as many clients as you want, with the only requirement for them being to be able to access the server over a (safe) network. Because the server can serve an arbitrarily large number of clients (depending only of your network connection, but as the server only has to serve the system once, it usually does not have to be able to support a heavy load), you can start even with only two machines, and then add more to your network according to your needs. Before we start, be sure to think about your network setup: you will to know the sub-nets on which your clients will be to configure the NFS server.

### Diskless or diskful setup
You will want to choose now if you want your clients to be disk-less (Do not store anything on the client, allowing it to have no disk, or use it's disk for other data) or not (store client specific state information on the client's hard drive and not on the server). The two cases will be referred to as a "diskless" and "diskful" setups. Go for a diskless setup for added security and reduced costs, but at the price of being *strictly* stateless. Go for diskful if you want only the OS to be stateless, but want people to be able to store their work and specific configuration options.

Once you know which setup you want, and have the machines (or VMs if you just want to play around) ready, let's start. We will first install the master server, then use one of the clients to create the system that we will deploy. Finally we will push that system to the server, and talk about tips and what to do if things fail.
