# Creating the client image

We are going to create the setup you want your clients to have on one of the client nodes and then push this data to the server for later export. If you are going for a diskless setup, you are going to need temporarily a disk inside to store the data until it is pushed to the server.

## Base install
Start by installing a basic system as corresponding to your needs. Once again many other, better-made, tutorials are available on the web. Once you have a system that boots with the configuration you will want for your nodes, come back here.

## Adapting to a read-only root
Now that you have a system to work with, you are going to want to do several changes to allow your system to work correctly with it's root being read-only. If you forget anything during your base install or want to make changes later on, remember that as long as your NFS shares are exported as read-write, you can change your system using the `mount -o remount,rw` command.

### Necessary packages
The following packages need to be installed on your system:
  * dracut-network
  * dracut-config-generic (needed to generate non-host-specific images)
  * nfs-utils
  * rsync

### Systemd units
Certain systemd units may not function properly or not be useful in our setup. For one you will want to disable `systemd-readahead-collect.service` that attempts to write to the disk it's usage pattern at boot time to speed-up booting. As we will be booting from the network, this is not useful and can be disabled using:
```
~# systemctl disable systemd-readahead-collect.service
```
See [`man 8 systemd-readahead`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages//man8/systemd-readahead-collect.service.8.html) for more details on this service.

You will want to watch and maybe test a bit the `systemd-tmpfiles` unit. It searches in `/etc/tmpfiles.d`,`/usr/lib/tmpfiles.d` and `/run/tmpfiles.d` for configuration files that require it to create a temporary directory/file to be created/removed. Any systemd-aware program may write a file inside one of these directories asking for these files/directories on their start/stop. If you have any such configuration files, be sure to add whatever they want to create as a writable file/directory in the following section.

Finally, checking boot and operation logs will sometimes yield errors from daemons that need to read/write sockets in weird places (the author had some problems with GSSPI), so depending of their usefulness you will want either to disable them or add whatever they require in the following section.

### Setting up were to store state and what parts must be writable
Two configuration files are of interest in this section: `/etc/rwtab` and `/etc/statetab`. Let's first examine `statetab`. As it's name indicates, it is in this file that you will configure what part of your system you want to be writable and saved across reboots. Depending on if you are in a diskless or diskfull setup, these will then be either stored locally on a disk or on the server in the directories we created in [part 2](docs/2.md). An example of line you would want to put in this file is:
```
/var/log
```
Though you might as well want all your clients to log to your server's syslog to be able to centrally manage them.

The second file, `/etc/rwtab` is a list of places in your file-system you want to be writable but don't care for across reboots (a bit like `/tmp`). You will have to add different lines here depending on your setup and the applications you run, but you will most probably want at least the following:
  * /etc/localtime
  * /var/lock
  * /var/lib/gssproxy
  * + others (/var/lib/postfix/master.lock if you are running postfix, and so on...)

### Setup the system to use a read-only root
The most important part of setting up the client happens here, when we configure Cent-OS's script that will take care of mounting the `/` as read-only, and bind-mounting all the correct files/directories where they should be according to the `/etc/statetab` and `/etc/rwtab`. To do that you need to edit the `/etc/sysconfig/readonly-root` file, it should contain the following lines:
```
# Set to 'yes' to mount the system filesystems read-only.
READONLY=yes
# Set to 'yes' to mount various temporary state as either tmpfs
# or on the block device labelled RW_LABEL. Implied by READONLY
TEMPORARY_STATE=yes
# Place to put a tmpfs for temporary scratch writable space
RW_MOUNT=/var/lib/stateless/writable
# Label of the local partition to use for temporary scratch place
RW_LABEL=stateless-rw #/!\
# Mount options for that partition
RW_OPTIONS=
# place to mount a generic persistent data slice
STATE_MOUNT=/var/lib/stateless/state
# Label of the local partition to use for persistent data if diskfull
STATE_LABEL=stateless-state #/!\
# Mount options of this partition.
STATE_OPTIONS=
# Non-local partition to store persistent data if diskless
CLIENTSTATE= #/!\
# Wether to use the 'slave' option when bindmounting. See man 8 mount.
SLAVE_MOUNTS=yes
```
Depending on whether you are going for a diskless or a diskful setup, you will want to tweak a bit this file:
  * If diskless, comment out the `RW_LABEL` and `STATE_LABEL` and add the path to the NFS export in the `CLIENTSTATE` field. The path will look like `<nfs server ip addr>:/data/cluster/state/`.
  * If you wish to use the machine's disk, put the partition labels you want to use in the `RW_LABEL` and `RW_LABEL` fields, and leave the `CLIENTSTATE` field empty.

### Kernel modules
We will generate the initramfs (the data that is loaded into RAM during boot to allow the system to bootstrap itself) in the next paragraph. To ensure proper functionality of your system, make sure that all the modules your kernel will need during the system's function are loaded, as the initramfs will be served by the server and no dynamic configuration can be done. Make sure to at least check you have the necessary modules to allow the system to mount NFS shares during bootup:
```
~# modprobe -v nfs nfsv4
```

## Generating the initramfs
This step is going to be separated into two processes: creating the first intiramfs and then configuring everything so that subsequent kernel/module updates create a correct initramfs. 

### First image generation
First create a list of the currently loaded kernel modules using the following command (see the respective manpages for details):
```
lmods=$(lsmod | grep -v Module | awk '{printf "%s ",$1}')
```
You can use `echo $lmods` to check that the output is correct (if you don't know what it should be and you see a long list of modules it's probably fine as your system is working).

Finally, generate the image using:
```
dracut -a "nfs network kernel-modules base" --add-drivers "$lmods" --kernel-cmdline "root=nfs:<nfs-server ip>:/data/cluster/system" -f initramfs-nfs.img
```
This will generate an initramfs and store it in the `initramfs-nfs.img` file. Keep in mind where it is because we are going to need it later on as we export the data to the server.

### Setup for future generations
Everything is configured in the `/etc/dracut.conf` file. It should suffice to hardcode the options we passed at the command line in the previous paragraph. In Cent-OS's default configuration file, there is no example for the `kernel_cmdline` field, but it is present -- see `man dracut.conf` for details. You should put `nfs network kernel-modules base` in the `add_dracutmodules` field, the output of `echo $lmods` in the `add_drivers` field and so on. Subsequent image generations by updates should rely on this file.

## Conclusion
You should now have on your disk all the data necessary too boot from an NFS share into a read-only system. In the next part we will see how we will send that data to the server as well as a few final touches to the data that we will make from the server.
