# Pushing the image to the server

## Rsync the files
To copy all of our data to the server, we are going to use `rsync`. Those of you not familiar with the command should probably go through the introduction and maybe a few of the examples of `man 1 rsync`, as it is a very usefull command. TL;DR is that is allows you to copy files over the network, knowing how to continue after an interruption and only copying the differences, saving bandwidth. However we are first of all going to copy the initramfs we generated in the last part for PXE to find. To do that, you can simply use `scp` with the following command:
```
~# scp initramfs-nfs.img root@<your server>:/path/to/pxeboot/
```
You can then check the PXE configuration loads the correct file as an initramfs. 
```
TODO: Get your hands back on a PXE server to check were that's done and give more details.
```

Then check that you do not have `autofs` running or you could find yourself with an infinite mounting loop (much fun!)
```
~# systemctl stop autofs.service
```
And then send the files:
```
~# rsync -aH --exlude=/{proc,sys,dev,media,mnt,tmp,home,run,srv}/ / root@<your server>:/data/cluster/system/
```
If the transfer completed without errors, you know have everything you need on the server! For the next part, we will be working from the server to check a few configuration files and remove some litter before firing up.

## Final touches
Once you are in your server, navigate to the `/data/cluster/system` directory. Be sure to not prepend a '/' by error the paths of the files we are going to edit as you would then be editing your server and not the data we will export! First of all look at the `etc/fstab` file. It should contain the following lines (plus/minus the comments):
```
none    /tmp            tmpfs   defaults   0 0
none    /dev/shm        tmpfs   defaults   0 0
sysfs   /sys            sysfs   defaults   0 0
proc    /proc           proc    defaults   0 0
```
Then:
  * Remove any old files leftover by yum as they are cleared on boot by systemd but it won't work as we will be read-only: `rm var/lib/rpm/__db*`.
  * Ensure you only have the `lo` interface in `etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-*` -- dracut will autogenerate the necessary files on boot.
  * Remove the `etc/hostname` file, so nodes take their hostname from the network; otherwise you would have many nodes on the same network with the same hostname, which is Bad.
  * If you know your setup created any other file that contains hardware-specific info that can be autogenerated, remove it to force it's generation.
